netdata supports plugins written in **any language**. The only requirement netdata has from their plugins is to be able to print values at their output.

Plugins can be written in the appropriate language for their job. For example:

- You can collect data from JMX, using a java application
- You can collect data from a REST API, using a node.js application
- You can collect data from a system command, using a shell script
- etc.

Many of these languages can run their code efficiently, but they require a lot of resources when they are initialized. netdata suggests that plugins will be **initialized once and run forever** (until stopped by netdata). This way, the expensive part of their execution, their initialization, is eliminated.

## General Plugin Guidelines


### Communication with netdata

Plugins standard output (stdout) is connected through a pipe to netdata. This is how netdata reads values from them.

Plugins standard error (stderr) is send to the error log of netdata.

### Disabled plugins

Plugins that exit with any value other than zero, will be disabled. Plugins that exit with zero, will be restarted after some time.

Plugins may also be disabled by writing the keyword `DISABLE` on their output. This keyword must be alone in its line.

Plugins may also be disabled by netdata if they are writing things that netdata does not understand.

### Plugins run forever

Plugins have to be designed in such a way to stay alive for multiple iterations.

This is very important for the resources consumed by netdata as a total. CPU resources are scarce, while memory resources are not to the same degree. Of course there must be a balance, but CPU resources must be respected above all other. So, writing plugins that can stay alive and repeatedly collect data and output them for netdata, is the best way of doing it.

### Generating data for netdata

Plugins can create any number of charts with any number of dimensions each. Each chart can have its own characteristics independently of the others generated by the same plugin. For example, one chart may have an update frequency of 1 second, another may have 5 seconds and a third may have 10 seconds.
